README.md, before:

# unofficial unbound multiarch docker image

[![Gitlab pipeline status](https://img.shields.io/gitlab/pipeline/klutchell/unbound?style=flat-square)](https://gitlab.com/klutchell/unbound/pipelines)
[![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/klutchell/unbound.svg?style=flat-square)](https://hub.docker.com/r/klutchell/unbound/)
[![Docker Stars](https://img.shields.io/docker/stars/klutchell/unbound.svg?style=flat-square)](https://hub.docker.com/r/klutchell/unbound/)

[Unbound](https://unbound.net/) is a validating, recursive, and caching DNS resolver.

## Architectures

The architectures supported by this image are:

- `linux/amd64`
- `linux/arm64`
- `linux/ppc64le`
- `linux/s390x`
- `linux/arm/v7`
- `linux/arm/v6`

Simply pulling `klutchell/unbound` should retrieve the correct image for your arch.

## Build

```bash
# build a local image
docker build . -t klutchell/unbound

# cross-build for another platform (eg. arm32v6)
export DOCKER_CLI_EXPERIMENTAL=enabled
docker run --rm --privileged multiarch/qemu-user-static --reset -p yes
docker buildx create --use --driver docker-container
docker buildx build . --platform linux/arm/v6 --load -t klutchell/unbound
```

## Test

```bash
# run selftest on local image
docker run --rm -d --name unbound klutchell/unbound
docker exec unbound unbound-anchor -v
docker exec unbound drill -p 5053 nlnetlabs.nl @127.0.0.1
docker stop unbound
```

## Usage

NLnet Labs documentation: <https://nlnetlabs.nl/documentation/unbound/>

```bash
# print general usage
docker run --rm klutchell/unbound -h

# run a recursive dns server on host port 53
docker run -p 53:5053/tcp -p 53:5053/udp klutchell/unbound

# run unbound server with configuration mounted from a host directory
docker run --name unbound -p 53:5053/udp -v /path/to/config:/opt/unbound/etc/unbound klutchell/unbound

# generate a root trust anchor for DNSSEC validation
# assumes your existing container is named 'unbound' as in the example above
docker exec unbound unbound-anchor -v
```

Please note the following if you are using a custom configuration file:

- `chroot` and `username` are not supported as the service is already running as `nobody:nogroup`
- `auto-trust-anchor-file` should be omitted or set to `root.key`
- any additional paths should be relative to `/var/run/unbound`

### Example

Use Unbound as upstream DNS for [Pi-Hole](https://pi-hole.net/).

```bash
# run unbound and bind to port 5053 to avoid conflicts with pihole on port 53
docker run -d --name unbound -p 5053:5053/tcp -p 5053:5053/udp --restart=unless-stopped klutchell/unbound

# run pihole and bind to host network stack with 127.0.0.1:5053 (unbound) as DNS1/DNS2
docker run -d --name pihole \
    -e ServerIP=your_IP_here \
    -e TZ=time_zone_here \
    -e WEBPASSWORD=Password \
    -e DNS1=127.0.0.1#5053 \
    -e DNS2=127.0.0.1#5053 \
    -v ~/pihole/:/etc/pihole/ \
    --dns=127.0.0.1 \
    --dns=1.1.1.1 \
    --cap-add=NET_ADMIN \
    --network=host \
    --restart=unless-stopped \
    pihole/pihole
```

If using docker-compose something like the following may suffice.

```yaml
version: '2.1'

volumes:
  pihole:
  dnsmasq:

services:
  pihole:
    image: pihole/pihole
    privileged: true
    volumes:
      - 'pihole:/etc/pihole'
      - 'dnsmasq:/etc/dnsmasq.d'
    dns:
      - '127.0.0.1'
      - '1.1.1.1'
    network_mode: host
    environment:
      - 'ServerIP=192.168.8.8'
      - 'TZ=America/Toronto'
      - 'WEBPASSWORD=secretpassword'
      - 'DNS1=127.0.0.1#5053'
      - 'DNS2=127.0.0.1#5053'
      - 'INTERFACE=eth0'
      - 'DNSMASQ_LISTENING=eth0'
  unbound:
    image: klutchell/unbound
    ports:
      - '5053:5053/udp'
```

## Author

Kyle Harding <https://klutchell.dev>

[Buy me a beer](https://kyles-tip-jar.myshopify.com/cart/31356319498262:1?channel=buy_button)

[Buy me a craft beer](https://kyles-tip-jar.myshopify.com/cart/31356317859862:1?channel=buy_button)

## Contributing

Please open an issue or submit a pull request with any features, fixes, or changes.

<https://gitlab.com/klutchell/unbound/issues>

## Acknowledgments

Original software is by NLnet Labs: <https://github.com/NLnetLabs/unbound>

## Licenses

- klutchell/unbound: [MIT License](https://gitlab.com/klutchell/unbound/blob/master/LICENSE)
- unbound: [BSD 3-Clause "New" or "Revised" License](https://github.com/NLnetLabs/unbound/blob/master/LICENSE)

Commit message:

fix DNSSEC validation by running unbound-anchor during docker build and allow unbound daemon to keep it up-to-date https://nlnetlabs.nl/documentation/unbound/howto-anchor/

README.md, after:

# unofficial unbound multiarch docker image

[![Gitlab pipeline status](https://img.shields.io/gitlab/pipeline/klutchell/unbound?style=flat-square)](https://gitlab.com/klutchell/unbound/pipelines)
[![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/klutchell/unbound.svg?style=flat-square)](https://hub.docker.com/r/klutchell/unbound/)
[![Docker Stars](https://img.shields.io/docker/stars/klutchell/unbound.svg?style=flat-square)](https://hub.docker.com/r/klutchell/unbound/)

[Unbound](https://unbound.net/) is a validating, recursive, and caching DNS resolver.

## Architectures

The architectures supported by this image are:

- `linux/amd64`
- `linux/arm64`
- `linux/ppc64le`
- `linux/s390x`
- `linux/arm/v7`
- `linux/arm/v6`

Simply pulling `klutchell/unbound` should retrieve the correct image for your arch.

## Build

```bash
# build a local image
docker build . -t klutchell/unbound

# cross-build for another platform (eg. arm32v6)
export DOCKER_CLI_EXPERIMENTAL=enabled
docker run --rm --privileged multiarch/qemu-user-static --reset -p yes
docker buildx create --use --driver docker-container
docker buildx build . --platform linux/arm/v6 --load -t klutchell/unbound
```

## Test

```bash
# run selftest on local image
docker run --rm -d --name unbound klutchell/unbound
docker exec unbound drill -p 5053 sigok.verteiltesysteme.net @127.0.0.1
docker exec unbound drill -p 5053 sigfail.verteiltesysteme.net @127.0.0.1
docker stop unbound
```

## Usage

NLnet Labs documentation: <https://nlnetlabs.nl/documentation/unbound/>

```bash
# print general usage
docker run --rm klutchell/unbound -h

# run a recursive dns server on host port 53
docker run -p 53:5053/tcp -p 53:5053/udp klutchell/unbound

# run unbound server with configuration mounted from a host directory
docker run --name unbound -p 53:5053/udp -v /path/to/config:/opt/unbound/etc/unbound klutchell/unbound
```

Please note that `chroot` and `username` configuration fields are not supported as the service is already running as `nobody:nogroup`

### Example

Use Unbound as upstream DNS for [Pi-Hole](https://pi-hole.net/).

```bash
# run unbound and bind to port 5053 to avoid conflicts with pihole on port 53
docker run -d --name unbound -p 5053:5053/tcp -p 5053:5053/udp --restart=unless-stopped klutchell/unbound

# run pihole and bind to host network stack with 127.0.0.1:5053 (unbound) as DNS1/DNS2
docker run -d --name pihole \
    -e ServerIP=your_IP_here \
    -e TZ=time_zone_here \
    -e WEBPASSWORD=Password \
    -e DNS1=127.0.0.1#5053 \
    -e DNS2=127.0.0.1#5053 \
    -v ~/pihole/:/etc/pihole/ \
    --dns=127.0.0.1 \
    --dns=1.1.1.1 \
    --cap-add=NET_ADMIN \
    --network=host \
    --restart=unless-stopped \
    pihole/pihole
```

If using docker-compose something like the following may suffice.

```yaml
version: '2.1'

volumes:
  pihole:
  dnsmasq:

services:
  pihole:
    image: pihole/pihole
    privileged: true
    volumes:
      - 'pihole:/etc/pihole'
      - 'dnsmasq:/etc/dnsmasq.d'
    dns:
      - '127.0.0.1'
      - '1.1.1.1'
    network_mode: host
    environment:
      - 'ServerIP=192.168.8.8'
      - 'TZ=America/Toronto'
      - 'WEBPASSWORD=secretpassword'
      - 'DNS1=127.0.0.1#5053'
      - 'DNS2=127.0.0.1#5053'
      - 'INTERFACE=eth0'
      - 'DNSMASQ_LISTENING=eth0'
  unbound:
    image: klutchell/unbound
    ports:
      - '5053:5053/udp'
```

## Author

Kyle Harding <https://klutchell.dev>

[Buy me a beer](https://kyles-tip-jar.myshopify.com/cart/31356319498262:1?channel=buy_button)

[Buy me a craft beer](https://kyles-tip-jar.myshopify.com/cart/31356317859862:1?channel=buy_button)

## Contributing

Please open an issue or submit a pull request with any features, fixes, or changes.

<https://gitlab.com/klutchell/unbound/issues>

## Acknowledgments

Original software is by NLnet Labs: <https://github.com/NLnetLabs/unbound>

## Licenses

- klutchell/unbound: [MIT License](https://gitlab.com/klutchell/unbound/blob/master/LICENSE)
- unbound: [BSD 3-Clause "New" or "Revised" License](https://github.com/NLnetLabs/unbound/blob/master/LICENSE)
